
=head1 NAME

OODoc::Parser::Markov - Parser for the MARKOV syntax

=head1 INHERITANCE

 OODoc::Parser::Markov
   is a OODoc::Parser
   is a OODoc::Object

=head1 SYNOPSIS


=head1 DESCRIPTION

The Markov parser is named after the author, because the author likes to
invite other people to write their own parser as well: every one has
not only their own coding style, but also their own documentation
wishes.

The task for the parser is to strip Perl package files into a code
part and a documentation tree.  The code is written to a directory
where the module distribution is built, the documenation tree is
later formatted into manual pages.

See L</DETAILS> chapter below
   General Description
      Disadvantages
   Structural tags
      Heading
      Subroutines
      Include examples
      Include diagnostics
      Compatibility
   Text markup
      The M-link
   Grouping subroutines
   Caveats
   Examples

=head1 METHODS


=head2 Parsing a file


$obj-E<gt>B<currentManual>([MANUAL])

=over 4

Returns the manual object which is currently being filled with data.
With a new MANUAL, a new one is set.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<findMatchingRule>(LINE)

=over 4

Check the list of rules whether this LINE matches one of them.  This
is an ordered evaluation.  Returned is the matched string and the required
action.  If the line fails to match anything, an empty list is returned.

I<Example:> 

  if(my($match, $action) = $parser->findMatchingRule($line))
  {  # do something with it
     $action->($parser, $match, $line);
  }

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<inDoc>([BOOLEAN])

=over 4

When a BOOLEAN is specified, the status changes.  It returns the current
status of the document reader.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<parse>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option   Defined in       Default   
 input                     <required>
 output                    devnull   
 version                   <required>

. input FILENAME

. output FILENAME

. version STRING

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<rule>((STRING|REGEX), (METHOD|CODE))

=over 4

Register a rule which will be applied to a line in the input file.  When
a STRING is specified, it must start at the beginning of the line to be
selected.  You may also specify a regular expression which will match
on the line.

The second argument is the action which will be taken when the line
is selected.  Either the named METHOD or the CODE reference will be called.
Their arguments are:

 $parser->METHOD($match, $line, $file, $linenumber);
 CODE->($parser, $match, $line, $file, $linenumber);

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<setBlock>(REF-SCALAR)

=over 4

Set the scalar where the next documentation lines should be collected
in.

=back

=head2 Producing manuals


$obj-E<gt>B<decomposeLink>(MANUAL, LINK)

=over 4

=back

=head3 Producing POD


$obj-E<gt>B<cleanupPod>(FORMATTER, MANUAL, STRING)

=over 4

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<cleanupPodLink>(FORMATTER, MANUAL, LINK)

=over 4

=back

=head2 Formatting text pieces

After the manuals have been parsed into objects, the information can
be formatted in various ways, for instance into POD and HTML.  However,
the parsing is not yet complete: the structure has been decomposed 
with L<parse()|"Parsing a file">, but the text blocks not yet.  This is because the
transformations which are needed are context dependent.  For each
text section L<cleanup()|OODoc::Parser/"Formatting text pieces"> is called for the final touch.

$obj-E<gt>B<cleanup>(FORMATTER, MANUAL, STRING)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Parser/"Formatting text pieces">

=back

=head2 Initiation


OODoc::Parser::Markov-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Diagnostic/"METHODS">

=back

=head2 Inheritance


$obj-E<gt>B<extends>([OBJECT])

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Inheritance">

=back

=head2 Commonly used functions


$obj-E<gt>B<filenameToPackage>(FILENAME)

OODoc::Parser::Markov-E<gt>B<filenameToPackage>(FILENAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Commonly used functions">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mergeObjects>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Commonly used functions">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mkdirhier>(DIRECTORY)

OODoc::Parser::Markov-E<gt>B<mkdirhier>(DIRECTORY)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Commonly used functions">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<unique>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"METHODS">

=back

=head2 Manual database

All manuals can be reached everywhere in the program: it is a global
collection.

$obj-E<gt>B<addManual>(MANUAL)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual database">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mainManual>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual database">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manuals>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual database">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manualsForPackage>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual database">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<packageNames>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual database">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Warning:> =cut does not terminate any doc in $file line $number

There is no document to end here.

I<Warning:> Debugging remains in $filename line $number

The author's way of debugging is by putting warn/die/carp etc on the
first position of a line.  Other lines in a method are always indented,
which means that these debugging lines are clearly visible.  You may
simply ingnore this warning.

I<Error:> The formatter type $class is not known for cleanup

Text blocks have to get the finishing touch in the final formatting
phase.  The parser has to fix the text block segments to create a
formatter dependent output.  Only a few formatters are predefined.

I<Warning:> You may have accidentally captured code in doc file $fn line $number

Some keywords on the first position of a line are very common for code.
However, code within doc should start with a blank to indicate pre-formatted
lines.  This warning may be false.

I<Error:> cannot read document from $input: $!

The document file can not be processed because it can not be read.  Reading
is required to be able to build a documentation tree.

I<Error:> chapter $name before package statement in $file line $number

A package file can contain more than one package: more than one
name space.  The docs are sorted after the name space.  Therefore,
each chapter must be preceeded by a package statement in the file
to be sure that the correct name space is used.

I<Error:> default for option $name outside subroutine in $file line $number

A default is set, however there is not subroutine in scope (yet).  It
is plausible that the option does not exist either, but that will
be checked later.

I<Warning:> default line incorrect in $file line $number: $line

The shown $line is not in the right format: it should contain at least
two words being the option name and the default value.

I<Error:> diagnostic $type outside subroutine in $file line $number

It is unclear to which subroutine this diagnostic message belongs.

I<Warning:> doc did not end in $input

When the whole $input was parsed, the documentation part was still open.
Probably you forgot to terminate it with a C<=cut>.

I<Error:> example outside chapter in $file line $number

An example can belong to a subroutine, chapter, section, and subsection.
Apparently, this example was found before the first chapter started in
the file.

I<Error:> manual definition requires manual object

A call to L<addManual()|OODoc::Object/"Manual database"> expects a new manual object (a L<OODoc::Manual|OODoc::Manual>),
however an incompatible thing was passed.  Usually, intended was a call
to L<manualsForPackage()|OODoc::Object/"Manual database"> or L<mainManual()|OODoc::Object/"Manual database">.

I<Warning:> no diagnostic message supplied in $file line $number

The start of a diagnostics message was indicated, however not provided
on the same line.

I<Error:> no input file to parse specified

The parser needs the name of a file to be read, otherwise it can not
work.

I<Warning:> option "$name" is not defined for subroutine $name in $package, but is linked to in $manual


I<Error:> option $name outside subroutine in $file line $number

An option is set, however there is not subroutine in scope (yet).

I<Warning:> option line incorrect in $file line $number: $line

The shown $line is not in the right format: it should contain at least
two words being the option name and an abstract description of possible
values.

I<Warning:> order conflict "$take" before "$insert" in $file line $number

The order of the objects in a sub-class shall be the same as that of
the super class, otherwise the result of merging of the information
received from both classes is undertermined.

I<Warning:> package $link is not on your system, but linked to in $manual


I<Error:> section $name outside chapter in $file line $number

Sections must be contained in chapters.

I<Error:> subroutine $name outside chapter in $file line $number

Subroutine descriptions (method, function, tie, ...) can only be used
within a restricted set of chapters.  You have not started any
chapter yet.

I<Warning:> subroutine $name() is not defined by $package, but linked to in $manual


I<Error:> subsection $name outside section in $file line $number

Subsections are only allowed in a chapter when it is nested within
a section.

I<Warning:> unknown markup in $file line $number: $line

The standard pod and the extensions made by this parser define a long
list of markup keys, but yours is not one of these predefined names.

=head1 DETAILS


=head2 General Description

The Markov parser has some commonalities with the common POD syntax.
You can use the same tags as are defined by POD, however these tags are
"visual style", which means that OODoc can not treat it smart.  The Markov
parser adds many logical markups which will produce nicer pages.

Furthermore, the parser will remove the documentation from the
source code, because otherwise the package installation would fail:
Perl's default installation behavior will extract POD from packages,
but the markup is not really POD, which will cause many complaints.

The version of the module is defined by the OODoc object which creates
the manual page.  Therefore, C<$VERSION> will be added to each package
automatically.

=head3 Disadvantages

The Markov parser removes all raw documentation from the package files,
which means that people sending you patches will base them on the
processed source: the line numbers will be wrong.  Usually, it is not
much of a problem to manually process the patch: you have to check the
correctness anyway.

A second disadvantage is that you have to backup your sources separately:
the sources differ from what is published on CPAN, so CPAN is not your
backup anymore.

=head2 Structural tags


=head3 Heading

 =chapter    STRING
 =section    STRING
 =subsection STRING

These text structures are used to group descriptive text and subroutines.
You can use any name for a chapter, but the formatter expects certain
names to be used: if you use a name which is not expected by the formatter,
that documentation will be ignored.

=head3 Subroutines

Perl has many kinds of subroutines, which are distinguished in the logical
markup.  The output may be different per kind.

 =i_method  NAME PARAMETERS   (instance method)
 =c_method  NAME PARAMETERS   (class method)
 =ci_method NAME PARAMETERS   (class and instance method)
 =method    NAME PARAMETERS   (short for i_method)
 =function  NAME PARAMETERS
 =tie       NAME PARAMETERS
 =overload  STRING

The NAME is the name of the subroutine, and the PARAMETERS an argument
indicator.

Then the subroutine description follows.  These tags have to follow the
general description of the subroutines.  You can use

 =option    NAME PARAMETERS
 =default   NAME VALUE
 =requires  NAME PARAMETERS

If you have defined an =option, you have to provide a =default for this
option anywhere.  Use of =default for an option on a higher level will
overrule the one in a subclass.

=head3 Include examples

Examples can be added to chapters, sections, subsections and subroutines.
They run until the next markup line, so can only come at the end of the
documentation pieces.

 =example
 =examples

=head3 Include diagnostics

A subroutine description can also contain error or warning descriptions.
These diagnostics are usually collected into a special chapter of the
manual page.

 =error this is very wrong
 Of course this is not really wrong, but only as an example
 how it works.

 =warning wrong, but not sincerely
 Warning message, which means that the program can create correct output
 even though it found sometning wrong.

=head3 Compatibility

For comfort, all POD markups are supported as well

 =head1 Heading Text          (same as =chapter)
 =head2 Heading Text          (same as =section)
 =head3 Heading Text          (same as =subsection)
 =head4 Heading Text
 =over indentlevel
 =item stuff
 =back
 =cut
 =pod
 =begin format
 =end format
 =for format text...

=head2 Text markup

Next to the structural markup, there is textual markup.  This markup is the
same as POD defines in the perlpod manual page. For instance,
C<< C<some code> >> can be used to create visual markup as a code
fragment.

One kind is added to the standard list: the C<M>.

=head3 The M-link

The C<M>-link can not be nested inside other text markup items.  It is used
to refer to manuals, subroutines, and options.  You can use an C<L>-link
to manuals as well, however then the POD output filter will modify the
manual page while converting it to other manual formats.

Syntax of the C<M>-link:
 ME<lt>OODoc::ObjectE<gt>
 ME<lt>OODoc::Object::new()E<gt>
 ME<lt>OODoc::Object::new(verbose)E<gt>
 ME<lt>new()E<gt>
 ME<lt>new(verbose)E<gt>

These links refer to a manual page, a subroutine within a manual page, and
an option of a subroutine respectively.  And then two abbreviations are
shown: they refer to subroutines of the same manual page, in which case
you may refer to inherited documentation as well.

=head2 Grouping subroutines

Subroutine descriptions can be grouped in a chapter, section, or subsection.
It is very common to have a large number of subroutines, so some structure
has to be imposed here.

If you document the same routine in more than one manual page with an
inheritance relationship, the documentation location shall not conflict.
You do not need to give the same level of detail about the exact
location of a subroutine, as long as it is not conflicting.  This
relative freedom is created to be able to regroup existing documentation
without too much effort.

For instance, in the code of OODoc itself (which is of course documented
with OODoc), the following happens:

 package OODoc::Object;
 ...
 =chapter METHODS
 =section Initiation
 =c_method new OPTIONS

 package OODoc;
 use base 'OODoc::Object';
 =chapter METHODS
 =c_method new OPTIONS

As you can see in the example, in the higher level of inheritance, the
C<new> method is not put in the C<Initiation> section explicitly.  However,
it is located in the METHODS chapter, which is required to correspond to
the base class.  The generated documentation will show C<new> in the
C<Initiation> section in both manual pages.

=head2 Caveats

The markov parser does not require blank lines before or after tags, like
POD does.  This means that the change to get into parsing problems have
increased: lines within here documents which start with a C<=> will
cause confusion.  However, I these case, you can usually simply add a backslash
in front of the printed C<=>, which will disappear once printed.

=head2 Examples

You may also take a look at the raw code archive for OODoc (the text
as is before it was processed for distribution).

I<Example:> how subroutines are documented


 =chapter FUNCTIONS

 =function countCharacters FILE|STRING, OPTIONS
 Returns the number of bytes in the FILE or STRING, or undef if the
 string is undef or the character set unknown.

 =option  charset CHARSET
 =default charset 'us-ascii'
 Characters in, for instance, utf-8 or unicode encoding require variable
 number of bytes per character.  The correct CHARSET is needed for the
 correct result.

 =examples

   my $count = countCharacters("monkey");
   my $count = countCharacters("monkey", charset => 'utf-8');

 =error unknown character set $charset

 The character set you can use is limited by the sets defined by
 L<Encode>.  The characters of the input can not be seperated from
 each other without this definition.

 =cut

 # now the coding starts
 sub countCharacters($@) {
    my ($self, $input, %options) = @_;
    ...
 }

=head2 COPYRIGHTS

all mine.

