
=head1 NAME

OODoc::Text::Section - collects the text of one section within a chapter

=head1 INHERITANCE

 OODoc::Text::Section
   is a OODoc::Text::Structure
   is a OODoc::Text
   is a OODoc::Object

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 my $chapter = $section->chapter;
 my @subsect = $section->subsections;

 my $index   = $section->subsection('INDEX');  # returns subsection

 my $index   = OODoc::Text::SubSection->new(...);
 $section->subsection($index);                 # set subsection

=head1 DESCRIPTION


=head1 METHODS


=head2 Subsections


$obj-E<gt>B<subsection>(NAME|OBJECT)

=over 4

With a NAME, the subsection within this section with that name is
returned.  With an OBJECT (which must be a OODoc::Text::SubSection),
a new subsection is added to the end of the list.

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<subsections>([SUBSECTIONS])

=over 4

Returns a list of all sections in this chapter.

=back

=head2 Attributes


$obj-E<gt>B<description>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<findDescriptionObject>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<openDescription>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<type>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<where>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Attributes">

=back

=head2 Container


$obj-E<gt>B<chapter>

=over 4

Returns the chapter object for this section.

=back

=head2 Collecting Information


$obj-E<gt>B<allExamples>

=over 4

Returns a list of all example, which are OODoc::Text::Example
objects, enclosed in the section and its subsections.

=back

=head2 Subroutines

Each manual page structure element (chapter, section, and subsection)
can contain a list of subroutine descriptions.

$obj-E<gt>B<addSubroutine>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Subroutines">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<setSubroutines>(OBJECTS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Subroutines">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<subroutine>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Subroutines">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<subroutines>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Structure/"Subroutines">

=back

=head2 Examples


$obj-E<gt>B<example>(OBJECT)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Examples">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<examples>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"Examples">

=back

=head2 Initiation


OODoc::Text::Section-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text::Diagnostic/"METHODS">

=back

=head2 Inheritance


$obj-E<gt>B<extends>([OBJECT])

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Inheritance">

=back

=head2 Commonly used functions


$obj-E<gt>B<filenameToPackage>(FILENAME)

OODoc::Text::Section-E<gt>B<filenameToPackage>(FILENAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Commonly used functions">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mergeObjects>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Commonly used functions">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mkdirhier>(DIRECTORY)

OODoc::Text::Section-E<gt>B<mkdirhier>(DIRECTORY)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Commonly used functions">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<unique>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Text/"METHODS">

=back

=head2 Manual database

All manuals can be reached everywhere in the program: it is a global
collection.

$obj-E<gt>B<addManual>(MANUAL)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual database">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<mainManual>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual database">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manuals>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual database">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<manualsForPackage>(NAME)

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual database">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<packageNames>

=over 4

See L<OODoc::Object/"Manual database">

=back

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

I<Error:> manual definition requires manual object

A call to L<addManual()|OODoc::Object/"Manual database"> expects a new manual object (a L<OODoc::Manual|OODoc::Manual>),
however an incompatible thing was passed.  Usually, intended was a call
to L<manualsForPackage()|OODoc::Object/"Manual database"> or L<mainManual()|OODoc::Object/"Manual database">.

I<Warning:> order conflict "$take" before "$insert" in $file line $number

The order of the objects in a sub-class shall be the same as that of
the super class, otherwise the result of merging of the information
received from both classes is undertermined.

=head2 COPYRIGHTS

all mine.

